---
title: "The Unedited Lewis Henry Morgan Lectures"
date: 2017-10-28T11:10:35-05:00
draft: false
---

## Reciprocity and Redistribution in Andean Civilizations

The 1969 Lewis Henry Morgan Lectures

John V. Murra\
Prepared by Freda Yancy Wolf and Heather Lechtman

[![Murra LHM
Cover](//www.haujournal.org/haunet/img/Murra.jpg)](https://haubooks.org/reciprocity-and-redistribution/)

Now available! [John V. Murra's Lewis Henry Morgan Lectures, *Reciprocity and
Redistribution*](https://haubooks.org/reciprocity-and-redistribution),
originally given in 1969, are the only major study of the Andean "avenue
towards civilization." Collected and published for the first time here, they
offer a powerful and insistent perspective on the Andean region as one of the
few places in which a so-called "pristine civilization" developed. Murra sheds
light not only on the way civilization was achieved here---which followed a
fundamentally different process than that of Mesopotamia and Mesoamerica---he
uses that study to shed new light on the general problems of achieving
civilization in any world region.

## The Meaning of Money in China and the United States

The Lewis Henry Morgan Lecture Series\
University of Rochester, 1986

Emily Martin

[![Martin LHM Front
Cover](//www.haujournal.org/Martin_LHM_FrontCover_FINAL.png)](//www.haujournal.org/Martin_FrontCover_FINAL.png) 

[![Martin LHM Back
Cover](//www.haujournal.org/Martin_LHM_BackCover_FINAL.png)](//www.haujournal.org/Martin_BackCover_FINAL.png)

 

**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

[Front
Matter](//www.haujournal.org/haunet/Martin_LHM_Lectures/06FrontMatter.html
"Emily Martin LHM Lectures - Front Matter")

[Foreword by Eleana
Kim](//www.haujournal.org/haunet/Martin_LHM_Lectures/00foreword.html "Emily
Martin LHM Lectures - Eleana Kim Foreword")

[Lecture I: Money and value in
China](//www.haujournal.org/haunet/Martin_LHM_Lectures/01martin.html "Emily
Martin LHM Lectures - Lecture I")

[Lecture II: Spirits and currency in
China](//www.haujournal.org/haunet/Martin_LHM_Lectures/02martin.html "Emily
Martin LHM Lectures - Lecture II")

[Lecture III: Money and value in the United
States](//www.haujournal.org/haunet/Martin_LHM_Lectures/03martin.html "Emily
Martin LHM Lectures - Lecture III")

[Lecture IV: Spirit and prosperity in the United
States](//www.haujournal.org/haunet/Martin_LHM_Lectures/04martin.html "Emily
Martin LHM Lectures - Lecture IV")

[References](//www.haujournal.org/haunet/Martin_LHM_Lectures/05martin.html
"Emily Margin LHM Lectures
- References")

Praise for *The Meaning of Money in China and the United States*

At last, and miraculously free-of-charge by virtue of HAU, we have Emily
Martin's crucial contribution to the anthropology of money. Here is a detailed
historical, archival, and ethnographic examination of the "dense meanings
deposited in money" in the longest-running monetized economy in world history,
namely that of China. Certain contrasts with European history define Martin's
point of departure, and one which adds power to our conviction that, without
China, the theorization of money is necessarily impoverished. In exquisite
ethnographic detail from PRC sources and fieldwork in Taiwan, and drawing
widely on the anthropological archive, Martin shows just how differently
"accumulation" works in different systems of conversion and configuration of
value. Martin's comparative analytics offer insights into the
sociality-independence axis of transactions in the Chinese and Western money
systems, in practice and in cultural definition, along with the mapping of
money onto a moral axis according to degrees and kinds of sociability and
evil/occult properties. This lecture series may be almost thirty years old but
it is not a single day out of date. We need it. It deserves to be an instant
treasure in the study of money.

---Jane I. Guyer, George Armstrong Kelly Professor of Anthropology, Johns
Hopkins University, author of <em>Marginal gains: Monetary transactions in
Atlantic Africa</em> (University of Chicago Press, 2004).

Although delivered in 1986, Emily Martin's lectures are both timely and
iconoclastic. Timely because she anticipates and contributes to contemporary
reassessments of capitalism (notably, David Graeber's magisterial *Debt: The
first 5000 years*) from the simultaneously comparative and critical vantage of
anthropology—a vantage frequently promised but seldom so successfully brought
to realization. Iconoclastic because as anthropology's "ontological turn"
(indexed in a shift from critiques of ideology to "knowledge production") gains
steam, Martin's unapologetic affirmation of critique is refreshing. Drawing
creatively from broad familiarity with China and from ethnographic involvements
in the contemporary United States, Martin makes a compelling case to the effect
that, in the final analysis, money (like debt) possesses potentials both to
connect people to others and to become a fetishized instrument of alienation
and exploitation.

---P. Steven Sangren, Professor of Anthropology, Cornell University, author
of <em>Chinese sociologics: An anthropological account of the role of alienation
in social reproduction</em> (LSE Monographs, Athlone, 2007).

This is a superb comparative study of the different meanings associated with
money in China and the United States. Through extremely rich ethnographic and
historical examples, Emily Martin reveals the distinctive ways that money is
understood and employed in social practices in both cultures. *Inter alia*,
these lectures are a beautiful demonstration that many of our theories about
the impact that money has on society are based implicitly on American
conceptions found in the United States—which should by no means be considered
as some kind of inherent or universal result of the workings of money. Emily
Martin's Morgan Lectures are a true classic, and will remain so for years to
come.

---Michael Puett, Walter C. Klein Professor of Chinese History, Harvard
University, author of *To become a god: Cosmology, sacrifice, and
self-divinization in early China* (Harvard University Asia Center, 2002).

**Emily Martin** is Professor of Anthropology at New York University. She is the
author of <em>The cult of the dead in a Chinese village</em> (Stanford
University Press, 1973), <em>Chinese ritual and politics</em> (Cambridge
University Press, 1981), <em>The woman in the body: A cultural analysis of
reproduction</em> (Beacon Press 1987), winner of the Eileen Basker Memorial
Prize, <em>Flexible bodies: Tracking immunity in American culture from the
days of polio to the age of AIDS</em> (Beacon Press, 1994) and <em>Bipolar
expeditions: Mania and depression in American culture</em> (Princeton
University Press, 2007), winner of the Diana Forsythe Prize. She is also the
founding editor of the public interest magazine <em>Anthropology Now</em>.

&copy; 2014 by Emily Martin

This work is licensed under the Creative Commons

Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported.

<div>2014. Martin, Emily. <em>The meaning of money in China and the United
States</em>. The HAU-Morgan Lectures Initative, Vol. 1. Chicago: HAU
Press.<br /><br /></div>

THE HAU-MORGAN LECTURES INITIATIVE\
A HAU AND UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER COLLABORATION

![](//www.haujournal.org/Ouroboros_Black_HAU.png)

![](//www.haujournal.org/UR%20SEAL_transparent.png)

