---
title: "HAU-N.E.T."
date: 2017-11-04T19:20:46-05:00
modDate: 2017-11-18T11:02:35-06:00
draft: false
description: "An international network of research centres, anthropology departments, and libraries working together to support HAU's flagship journal and book series"
---

HAU-N.E.T., or the HAU Network of Ethnographic Theory, is an international
network of research centres and anthropology departments working together to
support HAU's flagship journal and its innovative book series.

HAU-N.E.T. offers an alternative to existing subscription models in publishing.
It is based on the contention that the best way to support an open access,
non-profit initiative in anthropology is to bypass the logic and institutions
of the contemporary publication regime through the establishment of a network
of collaborating centers that champion and further an open access publishing
press and its prospects.

In the same way as the HAU takes advantage of the opportunity to bring about
changes in academic publishing through its engagement with the digital
revolution, HAU-N.E.T seeks to build on ever growing advances in communications
technology to help shift how we think about anthropology, how we conduct it,
and how we may continue to shape it as a discipline of global exchange.

HAU-N.E.T. marks a break from institutional models of affiliation, existing as
a shared enterprise with nodes distributed across universities, libraries, and
research institutions in several different countries. These nodes participate
in the development of HAU through their editorial advice, their suggestions for
reprints and translations, and their hosting and organizing of workshops,
seminars, and other initiatives. Each node of HAU-N.E.T. selects a local
representative to sit on HAU's External Adivsory Board who then liaises between
the local network and HAU's Editorial Team.

Proposed HAU-N.E.T. events include academic conferences and workshops based on
themes in ethnographic theory, masterclasses and guest lectures, discussion
groups and work-in-progress seminars. Visiting fellowships between member
institutions are planned, and the support of member institutions will be sought
in applications made for international collaboration grants to fund these and
other network activities.

Currently, HAU-N.E.T. consists of the following institutions:

