---
title: "Online Gods: A Podcast about Digital Cultures"
date: 2017-09-04T20:21:20-05:00
draft: false
---

<div class="podcastnav">

- [Listen](#listen)
- [Subscribe](#subscribe)
- [About](#about)

</div>

![](images/onlinegods/online_gods_logo.png "Online Gods Logo"){.podcastlogo}

### Listen {#listen}

#### Episode 1: Big Data and The Ladies Finger (August 7, 2017)

In this episode we speak to [Ralph
Schroeder](https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/people/ralph-schroeder/) about Big Data and
[Nisha Susan](http://theladiesfinger.com/author/nisha-susan/) about [The Ladies
Finger](http://theladiesfinger.com/).

<iframe style="border: none" src="//html5-player.libsyn.com/embed/destination/id/522466/height/90/width/582/theme/custom/autoplay/no/autonext/no/thumbnail/yes/preload/no/no_addthis/no/direction/backward/no-cache/true/render-playlist/no/custom-color/ffac26/" height="90" width="582" scrolling="no"  allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen></iframe>

### Subscribe {#subscribe}

Subscribe to "Online Gods" using one of the following services so you don't
miss an episode:

<div class="subscribeBtns">

- [![](images/onlinegods/subscribe-on-rss.png "Subscribe on RSS")](http://onlinegods.libsyn.com/rss)
- [![](images/onlinegods/subscribe-on-itunes.png "Subscribe on iTunes")](itms://itunes.apple.com/podcast/online-gods/id1268707636)
- [![](images/onlinegods/subscribe-on-stitcher.png "Subscribe on Stitcher")](http://www.stitcher.com/s?fid=147092&refid=stpr)

</div>

### About {#about}

Expanding across much of our world, Internet enabled digital cultures have
marked the current times with a heightened sense of connectivity and
instantaneity of information. If digital cultures are animated by the dialectic
of the universal binary code and proliferation of particular cultural
expressions, what pathways are available for anthropologists to explore the
particularities as they emerge within historically conditioned contexts? Should
ethnography become multimodal to examine the flux and flows of the dynamic
digital cultures?

With the new monthly podcast series "Online Gods", we ponder over these
questions, and ruminate on what it means to do ethnography in the digital age
by not only actively participating but also creating digital traces of our own.
Moreover, we wonder if ethnography in a polycentric world is enabled by
multimedia connections and conversations that can counter the problematic
distinction between "home and field" of classical (colonial) ethnography.
Temporal succession and spatial separation between ethnographic work (in the
field) and writing (at home) is radically reconfigured by digital affordances.
Journey "to" the field as a way to "discover difference" is muddled by digital
media, and for good reasons. Fields have collapsed into homes and vice-versa in
the continuous circuits of digital narratives. This could potentially overturn
the normalization of alterity via the trope of "fieldwork" at "distant" places.

Embedded within the digital networks, "Online Gods" is a podcast series about
digital cultures and its social-political ramifications. Featuring lively
conversations with scholars and activists, it inhabits the digital to examine
the digital.

Presented by anthropologist [Ian Cook](https://cmds.ceu.edu/ian-m-cook),
"Online Gods" is a key initiative of the ERC funded project ONLINERPOL
[www.fordigitaldignity.com](http://www.fordigitaldignity.com) led by media
anthropologist [Sahana
Udupa](http://www.en.ethnologie.uni-muenchen.de/staff/professors/udupa/index.html)
at LMU Munich. It is co-hosted by the HAU Network for Ethnographic Theory.

On one level, the title "Online Gods" signals the new forms of agency and
confidence around networked action through peer driven publicity and
coordination. It is easier for the common publics in the digital era to imagine
political action that can circumvent and even subvert the filtering barriers of
organized media and entrenched power. It is easier also to fall into the trap
that assumes online activities can alone bring about radical changes. "Online
Gods" signals the optimism and allure of online enterprise. On another level,
the title indexes the political cultures of religion and identities that are
increasingly inscribing the feelings of national belonging on online media.
Faith and nation are inextricably intertwined on online media discourses.
Online Gods---and project ONLINERPOL within which it is embedded---aims to
capture aspects of this intermeshing.

Online Gods is part theoretical exploration into some of the key concepts in
the anthropology of media, and part research into how increased online
interaction is changing the public sphere. Taking India and the India diaspora
as its focal point, the podcast continues in the great anthropological
tradition of bringing the global and the specific into conversation with one
another as it analyses what online cultures do to political participation,
displays of faith and feelings of national belonging. Each podcast will feature
news, a discussion with a scholar about a key concept and a chat with an online
god---one of the key players in India's e-public sphere.

We believe it is possible to be both sophisticated and yet comprehensible, and
that the spoken form can bring forth an accessibility that is sometimes missing
from the canonical written forms. We even wonder whether academic podcasting
might herald a technologically-enabled return to the centrality of oral
traditions in intellectual exploration---can podcasting weaken reading's
hegemonic hold on consumption of academic knowledge?

The podcast's parent project ONLINERPOL is funded by the European Research
Council Starting Grant Agreement Number 714285. At the core of our endeavor is
the value of digital dignity---to study and advocate for spaces where political
expression can expand in an enabling culture of contacts, without the fear of
shame and intimidation.

"Online Gods" is one effort to foster an enabling culture of contacts by
disseminating critical concepts that have inspired latest scholarly thinking on
digital media. It is also a platform where scholars, activists and general
interest publics can meet through the easy conversational format of the
podcasts. Well in step with the digital tradition, we look forward to your
comments and feedback. This can enrich our collective effort to secure a "home"
for media anthropology that does not breed the "field" as a space of difference
creation.

**Sponsors:**

<div class="podcastSponsors">

- [![HAU Network for Ethnographic Theory](images/onlinegods/hau-logo.png "HAU Network for Ethnographic Theory")](https://www.haujournal.org)
- [![Project ONLINERPOL](images/onlinegods/digital_dignity_logo.png "Project ONLINERPOL")](http://www.fordigitaldignity.com/)

</div>

